Send this page to someone via email

The consolidation of EMS dispatch in Alberta did not affect the response to the fatal dog attack in Calgary on Sunday, Health Minister Jason Copping said.

Speaking to reporters at an unrelated news conference on Thursday morning, Copping said the call initially came in as non-urgent and emergency responders at the scene quickly saw it was a life-threatening situation.

An initial report published by Alberta Health Services indicates that the consolidation of EMS dispatch a year ago did not affect the response to the incident, Copping said.

“When we initially heard that the timing (for paramedics to arrive) was approximately 30 minutes — it is not acceptable,” Copping said.

Story continues below advertisement

“I haven’t got a full assessment from AHS, but the initial assessment is that the consolidation of dispatch didn’t impact the nature of this call.” Tweet This Click to share quote on Twitter: "I haven't got a full assessment from AHS, but the initial assessment is that the consolidation of dispatch didn't impact the nature of this call."

“My heart goes out to the family and friends of the individual who passed away during this attack.”

Copping’s comments come as EMS wait times are under scrutiny, after three dogs fatally attacked 86-year-old Betty Williams in her northwest Calgary backyard on Sunday.

Read more: AHS reviewing EMS response time for fatal dog attack in northwest Calgary

It also comes after the province consolidated emergency dispatch services in Calgary, Lethbridge, Red Deer and Fort McMurray last year.

Calgary officials previously said the consolidation would result in call flow interruption and response delays, meaning “significantly longer” wait times for people needing an emergency response.

It was first reported that it took paramedics 30 minutes to answer the calls for help from neighbours — but an initial assessment by AHS suggested it wasn’t prioritized as a life-threatening call.

An AHS spokesperson confirmed to Global News that Calgary was on “red alert” on Sunday, and 18 ambulances were waiting to offload patients at various medical facilities. All other ambulances in the Calgary zone were already assigned to events.

Story continues below advertisement

AHS interim chief executive officer Mauro Chies said this is not an issue with a consolidated dispatch and everyone needs to “stick very clearly to the facts.”

“A call was put in with the information that was provided to our dispatch centre and we acted on the information that was provided at the time,” Chies said at a news conference on Thursday.

“I don’t see it as an issue of a consolidated dispatch. I see it as working with the information that was provided and reacting to what was required at that time.” Tweet This Click to share quote on Twitter: "I don't see it as an issue of a consolidated dispatch. I see it as working with the information that was provided and reacting to what was required at that time."

Chies also announced that an independent review of the EMS response to the dog attack will be conducted. The review will be done by an external, out-of-province investigator and will take approximately four months, but nobody has been chosen yet.

He also noted an internal review has already been completed by AHS which found that paramedics acted with the best information they had at the time.

“We’re aware of the concerns expressed about the time it took for an ambulance to arrive at the scene and we take those concerns very seriously,” Chies said.

Story continues below advertisement

“The external review is being done because of the severity of the incident that resulted in the tragic death… We’re hoping that the external review will either confirm our internal findings or if there are necessary immediate improvements that we can do.”

Read more: Alberta to table report with new recommendations to ease EMS pressures

Copping said the 30-minute response time was unacceptable and the health ministry will take AHS’ final report into consideration.

“You can be rest assured that there will be a full investigation and any recommendations coming out of this will be taken to heart,” Copping said.