More details are emerging after a man was attacked by an alligator he mistook for a dog outside a Florida motel. The incident occurred outside the Warm Mineral Springs Motel, at 12597 South Tamiami Trail in North Port, around 12:35 a.m. Tuesday.The Sarasota County Sheriff’s Office said the man was walking outside the motel and saw a figure moving along the bushes on a path. He thought it was a dog on a long leash, so he didn’t move out of the way, authorities said. Deputies say the alligator then bit his leg, ripping off a chunk of his muscle tissue.A witness identified only as Will told WBBH he rushed outside when he heard the victim's wife screaming. By the time he got outside, deputies were already working to bring the 7-foot gator under control."We had this sergeant, he jumped in the middle of the back of that gator, folded him up and taped him up into a ball," Will said. "He was laying there. And I just simply ask if they had a tourniquet on or anything. And he was in quite a bit of pain."The motel's owner told reporters he visited the victim in the hospital and the man is expected to be OK."I'm sure it was horrific," Will said.Still, Will says, situations like this are always a possibility."I mean, it happens. This is Florida. I mean, you can expect to see a gator or you're not having any fun," he said. A trapper relocated the alligator to a different area and wildlife experts say serious injuries from the reptiles are rare.

More details are emerging after a man was attacked by an alligator he mistook for a dog outside a Florida motel.

The incident occurred outside the Warm Mineral Springs Motel, at 12597 South Tamiami Trail in North Port, around 12:35 a.m. Tuesday.

Advertisement

The Sarasota County Sheriff’s Office said the man was walking outside the motel and saw a figure moving along the bushes on a path. He thought it was a dog on a long leash, so he didn’t move out of the way, authorities said. Deputies say the alligator then bit his leg, ripping off a chunk of his muscle tissue.

A witness identified only as Will told WBBH he rushed outside when he heard the victim's wife screaming. By the time he got outside, deputies were already working to bring the 7-foot gator under control.

"We had this sergeant, he jumped in the middle of the back of that gator, folded him up and taped him up into a ball," Will said. "He was laying there. And I just simply ask if they had a tourniquet on or anything. And he was in quite a bit of pain."

The motel's owner told reporters he visited the victim in the hospital and the man is expected to be OK.

"I'm sure it was horrific," Will said.

Still, Will says, situations like this are always a possibility.

"I mean, it happens. This is Florida. I mean, you can expect to see a gator or you're not having any fun," he said.

A trapper relocated the alligator to a different area and wildlife experts say serious injuries from the reptiles are rare.