Something went wrong, please try again later.

Calling all dog lovers! Sign up to our TeamDogs newsletter for your weekly dose of dog news, pictures and stories

A dog who was left tied to the gate of a rehoming centre has now found a new home after a couple read about him in the ECHO.

In late March, Kilo, a Staffordshire Bull Terrier, was found tied to the gates of Dogs Trust Merseyside in Huyton by staff who would take care of him until they could find him a new owner. He was discovered with only his food and water bowls, and a note from his previous owner which told them his name and explained that they could no longer look after him.

But fortunately, Kilo was not without a loving home for too long as after reading his story in the ECHO, Darren Fisher and Stacey Flavin, from Cheshire, arranged to meet the pet.

READ MORE:Messages of support to young mum who was given two years to live

The first meeting was a success and soon the couple agreed to adopt Kilo. His new owner Darren said that it was a perfect match.

Darren, from Winsford, said: "Our 15-year-old Staffie, Storm, died last year and I found it so sad when I read about Kilo.

"We went to meet him and fell for him straight away. We visited him on two more occasions so that he could get to know us better and then he came home with us.

"From day one he seemed as delighted to be with us as we were to have him home and he settled in straight away."

Little is still known about Kilo's previous life before he was found tied to the Dogs Trust gates. Though he is believed to be around six years old.

Dogs Trust said that Kilo was "nervous" and quiet after he was found. Now he is in high spirits once more and his days are full of joy, play and dog walks.

Darren added: "He’s awesome. Obviously we don’t know anything about his background, but he is just perfect.

"He loves going out and meeting other dogs and when he’s in the house he’s great company. We are so glad we’ve been able to give him a fresh start and if anyone is thinking of getting a dog, I’d encourage them to rescue.

"All dogs deserve a loving home."

Georgina Lowery, manager of Dogs Trust Merseyside said: "Given the circumstances in which Kilo came to us, we are all so happy that he has found his ideal home and settled in with Darren and Stacey so quickly. When they contacted us, we were very hopeful that they were going to prove to be a great match for him and once they were introduced, we knew they were.”

Sadly, for Merseyside's dogs in care it doesn't always turn out like it did for Kilo. Dogs Trust say they are currently caring for almost 50 dogs still looking for their forever home.

If you're looking to welcome a dog into your life, visit Dogs Trust here.