A GREAT Orme goat was put down yesterday (June 21) after it was allegedly the victim of an attack from two dogs in Llandudno.

A spokesperson for RSCPA Cymru said that euthanising the goat was considered “the kindest thing to do” after it had sustained wounds to its nose and mouth.

North Wales Police is also investigating the incident.

An eyewitness, who asked not to be named, said it "appeared to be American Bully-type dogs" who attacked the goat, who was “one of the old males” of the herd.

The eyewitness added that they saw “a white van” let the dogs out, saying: “It was around 7.30pm on Monday evening (June 20), at the top of Conwy Road, Llandudno.

“It could be a child or a family pet next time; I was about the 15th person that rang (the police). The whole town is up in arms over this. It’s disgusting.”

In April, 15 of the Great Orme goats were rehomed to Bournemouth, meaning there are now roughly 150 of the animals in Llandudno.

The Kashmiri goats saw their popularity soar after roaming the streets of Llandudno during lockdown.

Last October, the RSPCA had to put another of the goats down after being hit by a car, while warning signs were put up on Penrhyn Hill, near where the accident took place.

The goats were initially a gift to Lord Mostyn from Queen Victoria, and have roamed free for roughly 100 years.

READ MORE:

Bournemouth man caring for Great Orme goats promises herd will be in ‘goat heaven’

Great Orme goats worries continue in Craig-y-Don despite round-up

Great Orme goats rounded up and 15 moved to Bournemouth amid safety concerns

Council considering Great Orme goat round-up after one is hit by a car

A RSCPA spokesperson said: “The RSPCA received a call about concerns of a feral goat in Llandudno and an inspector first visited the goat along with a vet on Monday (June 20) in the grounds of the Blind Veterans centre.

“It was decided that the goat would need to be sedated but at that time, it was too late in the evening to safely do this.

“The vet said the goat would be OK overnight and plans were made to visit the following day.

“RSPCA Cymru attended on Tuesday with a vet and the Great Orme warden, and the goat was safely darted.

“The goat had open wounds to its nose and top part of the mouth. The goat had no teeth, opaque eyes and was estimated to be around 10 years old.

“The injuries were already covered in fly eggs and sadly, it was decided that the kindest thing to do to prevent suffering was to euthanise the goat as the stress of any treatment would be too much for this goat.

“This was carried out by the vet.”

The spokesperson added its concern that this was allegedly due to a dog attack, and stressed the importance of dog owners keeping their pets on leads when near livestock.

The RSPCA spokesperson added: “We are saddened and concerned to hear about this alleged incident and if anyone has any information regarding two dogs allegedly attacking this goat please contact the police, who are dealing with this.

“The RSPCA would like to stress the importance of keeping your pet under control and on a lead when near livestock and wild animals - like these roaming goats - to avoid devastating attacks.

“Even if you think your dog is placid and friendly, when faced with a field full of livestock they can be unpredictable.

“Dogs can injure or even kill livestock, and the stress of being chased can cause pregnant animals to abort their unborn young.

“It’s simply not worth taking the risk – keep your dog on a lead when near livestock.”

A North Wales Police spokesperson added: “I can confirm that we have received reports of a goat that was allegedly attacked by dogs in the Llandudno area.

“We are currently investigating the matter, and our enquiries are ongoing.”

The RSPCA also issued the following advice for dog owners when out in the countryside with their pets:

• Always check for livestock in fields when walking your dog(s).

• Always make sure you shut gates behind you.

• When in fields with livestock, it is vital that your dog(s) are kept on a lead and under control at all times. The only time you should release your dog is in the event of being chased by cattle. By restraining the dog in this circumstance, you are putting yourself at risk of being injured by the cattle.

• If your dog chases, scares or attacks sheep, report it to the farmer even if there is no apparent injury as the stress of worrying by dogs can cause sheep to die and pregnant ewes to miscarry their lambs.

• If you live near livestock and own a dog(s), make sure that your property and garden are secure so your pets cannot escape.

• If you are worried about your dog’s behaviour, visit the RSPCA’s website to find a suitable behaviour expert.

Those with information to assist with the police’s investigation can contact the force by calling 101 or by visiting its online live chat.