Something went wrong, please try again later.

Police were called after a schoolboy and his cousin said they were bitten as a "pack of dogs" ran loose in Birmingham. One of the pair was left "screaming in pain" and was in hospital for four days, a relative said.

Officers went to the scene, open land off Park Road in Hockley, after being alerted by the family on the evening of Friday, June 3. The mother of a 15-year-old GCSE student said he and his 20-year-old cousin were chased by up to ten dogs before they were bitten as they enjoyed a Jubilee Bank Holiday stroll with his sister.

The older victim, a woman, was later treated in hospital for a groin injury and a suspected stress-related heart condition, said the teenager's mum, who would only be named as Mrs Z.

READ MORE: Police reveal location of Walsall cannabis factory smashed in afternoon raid

"All the kids saw was ten dogs chasing them," she said. "My son was attacked, he was on the floor, while my daughter was still running as she had five or six dogs around her legs.

"My son was on the floor, there were five or six dogs on top of him, he was pushing them off. One bit his bottom leg, but his clothing didn't get bitten through. They both escaped and my daughter called the police."

(Image: Google)

At first, the family felt they could manage the injuries at home, until the next day when Mrs Z's niece deteriorated. She was taken to hospital with suspected broken heart syndrome, a treatable condition where sudden stress weakens the heart muscle.

Mrs Z said: "They're both traumatised and shaken. My son is back in school, he has his GCSEs, he was absolutely petrified. My niece is in hospital, she was absolutely traumatised."

She said her niece had a "very big fear of dogs" and her injuries left her "screaming in pain", while the family no longer felt safe in their neighbourhood. "All the kids are thinking is: 'What if we died?' I feel very unsafe, and I feel for my children, I feel like they can't get out the house anymore."

Mrs Z's niece was later discharged from hospital and was recovering at home. A spokesperson for West Midlands Police told BirminghamLive: "We were called to a report that two young people were bitten by a dog as they walked on open land off Park Road in Hockley at just before 7pm on Friday, June 3.

"We understand neither youngster suffered any puncture wounds to their skin, but they were advised to seek medical attention. We realise this must have been an upsetting experience and officers attended at around 7.30pm but found no dog matching the description we’d been given.

"Anyone with any further information can message us via Live Chat at west-midlands.police.uk, quoting investigation number 20/524593/22 or call 101."